docs: storage strategies concept update (#2146)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/installation-guide/partials/con_persistent-volume-configuration.adoc

[id="storage-strategies-for-{prod-id-short}-workspaces_{context}"]
= Storage strategies for {prod-id-short} workspaces

Storage strategy (PVC strategy):: A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces uses persistent volume claims (PVCs). It defines the default data storage when storing in the workspace volumes data such as:
+
* projects
* workspace logs
* additional Volumes defined by a user

.Storage strategies comparison
[width="100%",cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Storage strategy name
| `common`
| `per-workspace`
| `unique`

> | PVC count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PV count
```

Reviewer: A PVC is the request for storage, a PV is a chunk of storage. PV count and PVC should be the same. But as an admin I probably want to know how many PVs I have to provision rather than the number of PVC that Che is going to issue. That's not critical but it may be worth reviewing this article usage of PVC vs PV.

| One per user

> | One per non-ephemeral workspace

Reviewer: Do we really need to mention "non-ephemaral". A sentence that is easy to read ("One per workspace") becomes hard ("what the heck is a non-ephemeral workspace"?). 

Moreover this is a guide for admins. For admins that need to do capacity planning. And since they cannot control if developers will use ephemeral or not, they should consider the case that costs more (non-ephemeral). Thus we should remove "non-ephemeral" here.

> | One per workspace volume and user-defined PVC

Reviewer: I don't understand what this sentence means. Isn't `unique` just "One"? What's the "workspace volume" what's the "user-defined PVC"?

Reviewer: Ok I got it now. I think that "Multiple PVs per workspace" would be simpler here.

| Default
| yes
| no
| no

| Storage isolation

> | no

Reviewer: I think that's misleading. "storage not isolated"  may be interpreted as "users have access to others storage" which is not true and may be a reason for customers to not adopt Che. I am not sure what we wanted to say here but I would remove this line.

[id="storage-strategies-for-{prod-id-short}-workspaces_{context}"]
= Storage strategies for {prod-id-short} workspaces

Storage strategy (PVC strategy):: A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces uses persistent volume claims (PVCs). It defines the default data storage when storing in the workspace volumes data such as:
+
* projects
* workspace logs
* additional Volumes defined by a user

.Storage strategies comparison
[width="100%",cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Storage strategy name
| `common`
| `per-workspace`
| `unique`

| PVC count
| One per user
| One per non-ephemeral workspace
| One per workspace volume and user-defined PVC

| Default
| yes
| no
| no

| Storage isolation
| no
| no
| yes

| Control storage
| easy
| complex 
| most complex

| User count
| < 10
| > 100

> | < 100

Reviewer 2: where have those figures come from? Look pretty ambiguous for me

Author: The previous content is even more ambiguous: "great number of users", "lesser amount of users". Let's find something measurable. I will ask around for real numbers.

Author: @ibuziuk or can we entirely remove these user count restrictions?

Reviewer 2: I would suggest removing the user-count section at all. @l0rd wdyt?

Reviewer: I agree. Let's remove this line.

| Cluster size
| single node cluster
| multinode cluster

> | multinode cluster

Reviewer 2: where have you got that info? 
common PVC can be also used on the multi-node clusters

Author: Is it now advised? Current docs say it is not recommended.

Or should we change for "Cluster size recommendation" to make it more explicit?

Author: Current docs says this (but the `per-workspace` namespace strategy has been deprecated and removed, so it can't stay as it is): 

> The `common` PVC strategy is not suitable for large multi-node clusters. Therefore, it is best to use it in single-node clusters. However, in combination with the `per-workspace` {orch-namespace} strategy, the `common` PVC strategy is usable for clusters with not more than 75 nodes. The PVC used with this strategy must be large enough to accommodate all projects to prevent a situation in which one project depletes the resources of others.

Reviewer 2: I would remove cluster size section also - all strategises can work on single and multinode clusters

Reviewer: I agree with @ibuziuk, please remove it.

| Limitations
| Maximum one running workspace per user when the PV is in `ReadWriteOnce` access mode

> | Somewhat unpredictable PV count

Reviewer 2: why is it unpredictable? number of PVs = number of workspaces

Author: Current docs say: "PV count is not known and depends on the number of workspaces". Is the number of workspaces predictable?  It's a real question, how do you do capacity planning for workspaces.openshift.com?

Reviewer 2: exactly, so let's change `Somewhat unpredictable PV count` to `PV count depends on the number of workspaces`

When the user starts a non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine uses the common PVC.
The workspace only binds simultaneously to one node in the {orch-name} cluster.
The workspace engine ignores user-defined PVCs. 
It replaces volumes related to user-defined PVCs with a subpath in the common volume. 
Subpaths have a `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<original-PVC-name>__` prefix.
See xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-pvcs_{context}[].
The {prod-short} Volume name is identical to the name of the user-defined PVC.
It means that if a machine is configured to use a {prod-short} volume with the same name as the user-defined
PVC has, they will use the same shared folder in the common PVC.

When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes the corresponding subdirectory (`$\{ws-id}`) in the PV directory.

When the user deletes the last workspace, the workspace engine removes the common PVC. 

.Restrictions on using the `common` PVC strategy

`ReadWriteOnce` access mode::
The `ReadWriteOnce` access mode limits each user to run one unique concurrent workspace. See xref:installation-guide:configuring-the-number-of-workspaces-that-a-user-can-run.adoc[].

Scalability::

> Consider using this strategy in single-node clusters.

Reviewer 2: should be removed

Author: Can we now recommend the `common` strategy for large clusters and "many" users?

Reviewer 2: yes, what is more, there is a discussion around having only 'common' supported strategy in the future.
For example Developer Sandbox / workspaces.openshift.com is using common PVC strategy

> The `common` PVC strategy is not suitable for large multinode clusters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scalability::
The `common` PVC strategy is not suitable for multinode clusters with 'ReadWriteOnce' access mode for PVs if the number of concurrently running workspaces per user is more than 1
```

| `per-workspace`
| `unique`

| PV count
| One per user
| One per workspace
| Multiple PVs per workspace

| Default
| yes
| no
| no

| Limitations
| Maximum one running workspace per user when the PV is in the `ReadWriteOnce` access mode
| PV count depends on the number of workspaces
| Unpredictable PV count

|===

Persistent volumes (PVs) access mode::
The nature of the PV determines the available access mode: `ReadWriteMany` or `ReadWriteOnce`.
See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#access-modes[Kubernetes documentation - access mode].
For example, link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AmazonEBS.html[Amazon EBS] supports only the `ReadWriteOnce` access mode.

[id="the-common-storage-strategy_{context}"]
== The `common` storage strategy

This is the default storage strategy.
For each user, all workspaces use the same PV for the default data storage.

When the user starts a first non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine creates a common PV.

When the user starts another non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine uses the same common PV.
The workspace only binds simultaneously to one node in the {orch-name} cluster.

> The workspace engine ignores user-defined volumes. 

Reviewer: I don't think this is right. In this paragraph you are assuming that a devfile `volume` is a Kubernetes `PersistentVolume`. But that's not accurate. We do not mention that in the devfile specification. The only garantee is that the devfile volume will be translated in a volume (escaping the Copy-on-Write container filesystem) and that it will be persisted after a workspace restart (unless `attributes.persistVolumes` is set to `false`). The kind of volume that will be used by Che is just an implementation detail: saying that "user-defined" volumes are ignoered or that "user-defined volumes are replaced with volumes with subPath" is not right. I would remove these 2 sentences.

The workspace engine replaces volumes related to user-defined volumes with a subPath in the common volume. 
SubPaths have a `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<original-volume-name>__` prefix.
See xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-persistent-volumes_{context}[].
The {prod-short} volume name is identical to the name of the user-defined PV.
Therefore, if a workspace container uses a {prod-short} volume with the same name as the user-defined PV, they will use the same shared folder in the common PV.

When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes the corresponding subdirectory (`$\{ws-id}`) in the PV directory.

> When the user deletes the last workspace, the workspace engine removes the common PV. 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Group the related items in a list and have these listed as bullet points. Seeing all these different possibilities and reading them in one paragraph is difficult as a user/reader to understand and process the content in your mind.

I hope it is not just me. See what is helpful from the user/reader's perspective and do the needful.

Restrictions on the `common` storage strategy with the `ReadWriteOnce` access mode::
The `ReadWriteOnce` access mode limits each user to run only one concurrent workspace.

> See xref:installation-guide:configuring-the-number-of-workspaces-that-a-user-can-run.adoc[].

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Please fill in a friendly text inside [ ]. At present it is not saying anything here: xref:installation-guide:configuring-the-number-of-workspaces-that-a-user-can-run.adoc**[]**

Scalability::
The `common` storage strategy is not suitable for multi-node clusters with the 'ReadWriteOnce' access mode for PVs if the number of concurrently running workspaces per user is more than 1.

> Persistent volumes (PV) provisioning::

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Choose any one: Persistent volume (PV)  or Persistent volumes (PV)s - global change (for lines 82 and 99 as well).

Create a large enough PV to accommodate all projects to prevent a situation in which one project depletes the resources of others.

[id="the-per-workspace-storage-strategy_{context}"]
== The `per-workspace` storage strategy

Each workspace uses one dedicated PV. 
All {prod-short} volumes defined within a single workspace use the same PV.

Persistent volumes (PV) provisioning::
Users can run multiple workspaces simultaneously. This action results in more PVs.

[id="the-unique-storage-strategy_{context}"]
== The `unique` storage strategy

> Each {prod-short} volume defined in a workspace has its own PV.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: has its own/has its own persistent volume (PV).

[id="storage-strategies-for-{prod-id-short}-workspaces_{context}"]
= Storage strategies for {prod-id-short} workspaces

Storage strategy::
A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces uses persistent volume claims (PVCs) and persistent volumes (PVs). 

> It defines the storage for workspace data: projects, workspace logs, or additional Volumes defined by a user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method defines the storage for workspace data, for example, projects, workspace logs, or additional volumes defined by a user.
```

.Storage strategies comparison
[width="100%",cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Storage strategy name
| `common`
| `per-workspace`
| `unique`

> | Persistent volume count

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| PVC
```

Author: ```suggestion
| PV count
```

| One per user
| One per workspace

> | Multiple persistent volumes per workspace

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Multiple PVs per workspace
```

| Default
| yes
| no
| no

| Limitations

> | Maximum one running workspace per user when the persistent volume is in `ReadWriteOnce` access mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Set a limit of one running workspace per user to avoid issues when mounting volumes
```

Author: Avoid "recommends". See:  https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#recommend

Reviewer: 👍

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Maximum one running workspace per user when the PV is in the `ReadWriteOnce` access mode
```

Reviewer: I have updated the suggestion

> | Persistent volume count depends on the number of workspaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| PVC depends on the number of workspaces
```

Author: ```suggestion
| PV count depends on the number of workspaces
```

> | Unpredictable persistent volume count

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Unpredictable PVC
```

Author: ```suggestion
| Unpredictable PV count
```

|===

Persistent volumes (PVs) access mode::

> The nature of the persistent volume determines the available access mode: `ReadWriteMany` or `ReadWriteOnce`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The nature of the PV determines the available access mode: `ReadWriteMany` or `ReadWriteOnce`.
```

See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#access-modes[Kubernetes documentation - access mode].
For example, link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AmazonEBS.html[Amazon EBS] supports only the `ReadWriteOnce` access mode.

[id="the-common-storage-strategy_{context}"]
== The `common` storage strategy

This is the default storage strategy.

> For each user, all workspaces use the same Persistent Volume (PV) for the default data storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For each user, all workspaces use the same PV for the default data storage.
```

> When the user starts a first non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine creates the common persistent volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the user starts a first non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine creates a common PV.
```

> When the user starts a non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine uses the common persistent volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the user starts another non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine uses the same common PV.
```

The workspace only binds simultaneously to one node in the {orch-name} cluster.
The workspace engine ignores user-defined volumes. 

> The workspace engine replaces volumes related to user-defined volumes with a subpath in the common volume. 

Reviewer: The 2 rows above are contradictory. First we say that user-defined volumes are ignored. Then that they are "replaced" with a subpath in the common volume.

The "common" PVC strategy is implemented using [subPaths](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath) of a "common to all workspaces" PV. That's not specific of user defined volumes but applies to any file that needs to be persisted through the restarts of a workspace (projects included).

Reviewer 3: These seem like restrictions. Suggest putting a suitable sub-heading such as limitations/restrictions. It will be helpful from the reader's perspective to scan the information easily and quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The workspace engine replaces volumes related to user-defined volumes with a subPath in the common volume. 
```

> Subpaths have a `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<original-volume-name>__` prefix.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SubPaths have a `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<original-volume-name>__` prefix.
```

See xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-persistent-volumes_{context}[].

> The {prod-short} Volume name is identical to the name of the user-defined persistent volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The {prod-short} volume name is identical to the name of the user-defined PV.
```

> Therefore, if a workspace container uses a {prod-short} volume with the same name as the user-defined persistent volume, they will use the same shared folder in the common persistent volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Therefore, if a workspace container uses a {prod-short} volume with the same name as the user-defined PV, they will use the same shared folder in the common PV.
```

Reviewer 3: Question: 
In this sentence: "**they** will use the same shared folder", what do you mean by "they"?

- Workspace containers ?
- {prod-short} volumes?
- user-defined PVs?
- or both {prod-short} volumes and user-defined PVs ?

It is not clear to the reader. Suggest rewriting to provide more clarity.

> When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes the corresponding subdirectory (`$\{ws-id}`) in the persistent volume directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes the corresponding subdirectory (`$\{ws-id}`) in the PV directory.
```

> When the user deletes the last workspace, the workspace engine removes the common persistent volume. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the user deletes the last workspace, the workspace engine removes the common PV. 
```

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Would it be a good idea to come up with a table with columns such as user action and Behavior of the workspace engine, with an appropriate table heading? This will simplify the content and improve the readability as the reader can scan, map, and understand the content easily and quickly.

> Restrictions on the `common` storage strategy with `ReadWriteOnce` access mode::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Restrictions on the `common` storage strategy with the `ReadWriteOnce` access mode::
```

The `ReadWriteOnce` access mode limits each user to run only one concurrent workspace.
See xref:installation-guide:configuring-the-number-of-workspaces-that-a-user-can-run.adoc[].

Scalability::

> The `common` storage strategy is not suitable for multinode clusters with 'ReadWriteOnce' access mode for persistent volumes if the number of concurrently running workspaces per user is more than 1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `common` storage strategy is not suitable for multi-node clusters with the 'ReadWriteOnce' access mode for PVs if the number of concurrently running workspaces per user is more than 1.
```

Persistent volumes (PV) provisioning::

> Create large enough persistent volume to accommodate all projects to prevent a situation in which one project depletes the resources of others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a large enough PV to accommodate all projects to prevent a situation in which one project depletes the resources of others.
```

[id="the-per-workspace-storage-strategy_{context}"]
== The `per-workspace` storage strategy

> Each workspace uses one dedicated persistent volume. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each workspace uses one dedicated PV. 
```

> All {prod-short} Volumes defined in one workspace use the same persistent volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All {prod-short} volumes defined within a single workspace use the same PV.
```

Scalability::

> Consider enabling this strategy on large multi-node clusters with a higher amount of users.

Reviewer 2: I would probably drop this scalability recommendation at all. For me, it does not make much sense and it is much more ambiguous than useful. The scalability recommendation would be related to the number of PVs, which is already covered above

> Scalability::
> Consider enabling this strategy on large multi-node clusters with a higher amount of users.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Consider enabling this strategy on large multinode clusters with a higher amount of users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consider enabling this strategy on large multi-node clusters with a higher amount of users.
```

Persistent volumes (PV) provisioning::

> Users can run multiple workspaces simultaneously. It results in more persistent volumes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users can run multiple workspaces simultaneously. This action results in more PVs.
```

[id="the-unique-storage-strategy_{context}"]
== The `unique` storage strategy

> Each {prod-short} Volume defined in a workspace has its own persistent volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each {prod-short} volume defined in a workspace has its own PV.
```

> When the user starts a workspace, the workspace engine creates the workspace persistent volumes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the user starts a workspace, the workspace engine creates the workspace PVs.
```

> The workspace engine generates an unique name for each persistent volume to prevent naming conflicts with other persistent volumes in the same {orch-namespace}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The workspace engine generates a unique name for each PV to prevent name conflicts with other PVs in the same {orch-namespace}.
```

> To ensure that different storage strategies use the same persistent volume data structure, subpaths of the mounted persistent volumes that reference user-defined persistent volumes are prefixed with `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<persistent-volume-name>__`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ensure that different storage strategies use the same PV data structure, subPaths of the mounted PVs that reference user-defined PVs are prefixed with `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<persistent-volume-name>__`. 
```

See xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-persistent-volumes_{context}[].

> When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes all workspace persistent volumes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes all workspace PVs.
```

> Persistent volumes (PV) provisioning::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PV provisioning::
```

Reviewer 3: ^^ This is a global change.

> This is the strategy creating the highest volumes count.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the strategy, which creates the highest volume counts.
```

[id="how-subpaths-are-used-in-persistent-volumes_{context}"]

> == How subpaths are used in persistent volumes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== How subPaths are used in persistent volumes (PVs)
```

> Subpaths illustrate the folder hierarchy in the Persistent Volumes (PV).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SubPaths illustrate the folder hierarchy in the PV.
```

[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
/__<pv0001>__
  /__<workspaceID1>__
  /__<workspaceID2>__
  /__<workspaceIDn>__
    /che-logs
    /projects
    /__<volume1>__
    /__<volume2>__
    /__<user-defined-volume-name-1>__
    /__<user-defined-volume-name-2>__
    /__<user-defined-volume-name-3|volume3>__
    ...
----

> When a user defines volumes for components in the devfile, all components that define the volume of the same name will be backed by the same directory in the persistent volume as `__<persistent-volume-name>__`, `__<workspace-ID>__`, or `__<original-volume-name>__`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a user defines volumes for components in the devfile, all components that define the volume of the same name will be backed by the same directory in the PV as `__<persistent-volume-name>__`, `__<workspace-ID>__`, or `__<original-volume-name>__`.
```

Reviewer 3: > volume of the same name will be backed by the same directory

Suggestion: Rewrite to simplify the meaning and bring in more clarity; an example will definitely be helpful. It will also prevent confusion. As a result, for the reader, it will be easier and quicker to read and understand the concept and process.

> Each component can have this location mounted on a different path in its containers.

Reviewer 3: Question: What do you mean by "this location"? 
Suggestion: Rewrite to provide more clarity. An example will help to better understand what you are saying in the preceding sentence.

Author: I believe we can keep it as is because this complete piece of documentation will go way soon.

[id="storage-strategies-for-{prod-id-short}-workspaces_{context}"]
= Storage strategies for {prod-id-short} workspaces

Storage strategy::

> A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces uses persistent volume claims (PVCs) and persistent volumes (PVs). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces uses persistent volume claims (PVCs) which are bound to the physical persistent volumes (PVs).
```

Author: I think it does not make much sense to the user to introduce details on the relationship between PV and PVC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces use persistent volume claims (PVCs) and persistent volumes (PVs). 
```

When the user starts a non-ephemeral workspace, the workspace engine uses the common persistent volume.
The workspace only binds simultaneously to one node in the {orch-name} cluster.
The workspace engine ignores user-defined volumes. 
The workspace engine replaces volumes related to user-defined volumes with a subpath in the common volume. 
Subpaths have a `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<original-volume-name>__` prefix.
See xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-persistent-volumes_{context}[].
The {prod-short} Volume name is identical to the name of the user-defined persistent volume.
Therefore, if a workspace container uses a {prod-short} volume with the same name as the user-defined persistent volume, they will use the same shared folder in the common persistent volume.

When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes the corresponding subdirectory (`$\{ws-id}`) in the persistent volume directory.

When the user deletes the last workspace, the workspace engine removes the common persistent volume. 

Restrictions on the `common` storage strategy with `ReadWriteOnce` access mode::

> The `ReadWriteOnce` access mode limits each user to run one unique concurrent workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ReadWriteOnce` access mode limits each user to run only one concurrent workspace.
```

When the user deletes a workspace, the workspace engine deletes all workspace persistent volumes.

Persistent volumes (PV) provisioning::
This is the strategy creating the highest volumes count.

[id="how-subpaths-are-used-in-persistent-volumes_{context}"]
== How subpaths are used in persistent volumes

Subpaths illustrate the folder hierarchy in the Persistent Volumes (PV).

[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
/__<pv0001>__
  /__<workspaceID1>__
  /__<workspaceID2>__
  /__<workspaceIDn>__
    /che-logs
    /projects
    /__<volume1>__
    /__<volume2>__
    /__<user-defined-volume-name-1>__
    /__<user-defined-volume-name-2>__
    /__<user-defined-volume-name-3|volume3>__
    ...
----

When a user defines volumes for components in the devfile, all components that define the volume of the same name will be backed by the same directory in the persistent volume as `__<persistent-volume-name>__`, `__<workspace-ID>__`, or `__<original-volume-name>__`.
Each component can have this location mounted on a different path in its containers.

.Example
With the `common` storage strategy, the workspace engine replaces user-defined volumes with subpaths on the common persistent volume.

> When the user references the `__<my-volume>__` volume, the workspace engine mounts it on the common persistent volume with the `/__<workspace-id>__/__<my-volume>__` subpath.

Reviewer 2: this section should be part of the 'common' strategy imo

Author: The common strategy already has it, let's remove it.

[id="storage-strategies-for-{prod-id-short}-workspaces_{context}"]
= Storage strategies for {prod-id-short} workspaces

Storage strategy::
A configurable method defining how {prod-short} workspaces uses persistent volume claims (PVCs) and persistent volumes (PVs). 
It defines the storage for workspace data: projects, workspace logs, or additional Volumes defined by a user.

.Storage strategies comparison
[width="100%",cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Storage strategy name
| `common`
| `per-workspace`
| `unique`

| Persistent volume count
| One per user
| One per workspace
| Multiple persistent volumes per workspace

| Default
| yes
| no
| no

| Control storage
| easy
| complex 

> | most complex

Reviewer 2: I would probably remove this section because it is more ambiguous then infortative

Author: ```suggestion
```

Workspace Pods use Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs), which are bound to the physical Persistent Volumes (PVs) with link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#access-modes[ReadWriteOnce access mode]. It is possible to configure how the {prod-short} server uses PVCs for workspaces. The individual methods for this configuration are called PVC strategies:

[width="100%",cols="^,^,^,^",options="header"]
|===
|Strategy |Details |Pros |Cons
|*common (default)* |

> One PVC for all workspaces in one {platforms-namespace}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One PVC is shared across all workspaces of a given user
```

| Easy to manage and control storage | If PV does not support `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) access mode, the configuration will work only if one or both of the following apply:

> * Each workspace is in a separate {platforms-namespace}

Reviewer 2: could you clarify what exactly is meant here? any details on how is it possible to configure running each workspace in a separate namespace?
Why a user would opt for the common PVC if each workspace is isolated in a separate namespace? The whole essence of the common PVC is sharing a single persistent volume across all the user's workspaces

Author: You mean: remove this line, as it is meaningless?

Author: Can it be some leftover from the time when multiple namespace strategies existed?

Reviewer 2: I do not know what is meant, so I'm asking the author of PR ;-)
for me the statement does not make sense

Author: Indeed: All namespace strategies other than per-user are deprecated for 7.30 and removed for 7.32. We removed direct mentions of these strategies, but here we can simplify the docs as we can assert that one user == one namespace.

Author: @ibuziuk I added substantial refactoring, does it address your concern?

> * Only one workspace is running per {platforms-namespace} at the same time. See xref:installation-guide:configuring-the-number-of-workspaces-that-a-user-can-run.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: this statement is missing details that were part of the https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/pull/1902

Author: @ibuziuk I added substantial refactoring, does it address your concern?

* Subpaths of the mounted Physical persistent volumes that reference user-defined PVCs are prefixed with `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<PVC-name>__`. This ensures that the same PV data structure is configured with different PVC strategies. For details, see xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-pvcs_{context}[].

> 
> Scalability::
> Consider using this strategy on larger multinode clusters with a lesser amount of users.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Subpaths of the mounted Physical persistent volumes that reference user-defined PVCs are prefixed with `_<workspace-ID>_` or `__<PVC-name>__`. This ensures that the same PV data structure is configured with different PVC strategies. For details, see xref:how-subpaths-are-used-in-pvcs_{context}[].

Scalability::

> Consider using this strategy on larger multinode clusters with a lesser amount of users.

Reviewer 2: should be removed IMO
